# ThinkOS Chapter 3

**1. The Georgian alphabet has 33 letters.  How many bits are needed to specify a letter?**

log2(33) = 5ish = 6

**2. In the UTF-16 character encoding, the binary representation of a character can take up to 32 bits.  Ignoring the details of the encoding scheme, how many different characters can be represented?**

2^16 = 65536 / 32 = 2048

**3. What is the difference between "memory" and "storage" as defined in Think OS?**

Memory is more temporary, as in RAM. Storage is long term, as in HDDs and SSD.

**4. What is the difference between a GiB and a GB?  What is the percentage difference in their sizes?**

Different units. GiB (“gibibyte”) is binary, and represents 2^30 bytes. GB (“gigabyte”) is decimal, and stands for 10^9 bytes.  2^30/10^9 = 1.074 = 7.4%

**5. How does the virtual memory system help isolate processes from each other?**

Each process is allocated its own virtual memory space, meaning that it can’t try to write to a physical memory space allocated to a different process?

**6. Why do you think the stack and the heap are usually located at opposite ends of the address space?**

By having them at opposite ends of the address space, the stack and heap can coexist and allow each other to use more or less address space as required. Of course, this introduces the potential for catastrophic errors, but with a good OS, this optimizes the space that the two have.  They are also dynamically allocated, so having them start at opposite ends and grow towards each other allows each to use up the space they need without potentially bumping into each other - if the stack started above the heap and grew “up” as well, then if we had a big heap and a small stack then the heap would “bump into” the stack and overwrite it instead of using all the empty space above the stack.

**7. What Python data structure would you use to represent a sparse array?**

Instead of having a huge array in which most of the entries are empty (zero or null), we could use a Python dictionary to specifically map values to certain positions, and assume that the rest are empty.

**8. What is a context switch?**

A method for an operating system interrupts one process when it’s not in a critical stage, saves its state, and begins running another process.

## As an exercise, run aspace.c on your computer and compare your results to mine.
  
**1. Add a second call to malloc and check whether the heap on your system grows up (toward larger addresses)**

Grows up *thumbs up emoji* (aww look at our lil heap all grown up :3)

**2. Add a function that prints the address of a local variable, and check whether the stack grows down**

Works in MacOS. Ubuntu - WTF? (This stands for Wow, That Failure!) Well, it turns out that the OS can choose how it wants to allocate the memory space, and although the heap growing up and the stack growing down is most typical, it might not be the case and is not as incredibly important in a 64-bit system where we have like, gazillions of memory.  Approx 10^20 bytes.  So while that was unexpected behavior from Ubuntu, it’s not really unheard of.

**3. Choose a random number between 1 and 32, and allocate two chunks with that size.  How much space is there between them?  Hint: Google knows how to subtract hexadecimal numbers**

Chose 16 and 24. 32 between them.